---
layout: post
title: "Minecraft 21w15a"
date: 2021-04-14 14:04:01 -0500
---

This snapshot adds goat ramming, raw ore blocks, and marker entities. The Caves & Cliffs update was also split in two. See the [changelog](https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/minecraft-snapshot-21w15a) and the [announcement](https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/a-caves---cliffs-announcement).

# Goat Ramming

Goats will ram any [mob](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Mob) (except other goats) as well as players and armor stands.

Goats have a **600-6000 tick cooldown** (30 seconds to 5 minutes, uniform random, both ends inclusive) between rams and on spawn. **This massive cooldown may be why some people say the feature hasn't been implemented yet.** Even if the cooldown expires, **goats will not try to ram if it is being tempted or bred**. If a goat fails to ram, it will wait 600 ticks (30 seconds) before trying again.

When the goat decides to ram, it will choose from the mobs it can see, *probably* the closest one. If that mob is within **4-7 blocks**, Manhattan distance, the goat will target that mob.

Every time the goat ram target moves to a different block, the goat will recalculate its ramming path. If the target goes out of range, it will stop trying to ram.

Goats will **prepare to ram for 20 ticks** (1 second) when it finds a target. During that time, the goat has 25% extra speed.

Once the preparation time expires, the goat will charge at the mob at **triple its normal speed**. Adults do **2 damage** when ramming and babies do **1 damage**.

When hit by an adult goat, the mob will be knocked back by `4.125x` the goat's speed, with a minimum of `0.5` blocks/sec and a **maximum of `7.5` blocks/sec**. For a baby,the mob will be knocked back by `1.65x` the goat's speed, minimum `0.2` blocks/sec, maximum `3.0` blocks/sec. If a mob blocks the ram (such as with a shield) they will get knocked back half as much.

# Creepers

If a goat hits a creeper, the creeper will not target the goat. **Creepers do not flee from goats like they do from cats.**

# Marker Entities

Other entities cannot ride markers, and will immediately dismount if you try to force them to.

# Raw Blocks

Raw iron, raw copper, and raw gold have **hardness 5** and **blast resistance 6**. **Raw iron and raw copper blocks need a stone pickaxe** or better, while **raw gold blocks need an iron pickaxe** or better, the same as their respective ores.

# Archaeology

The feature has been delayed to a future update.

