---
layout: post
title: "Minecraft 21w13a"
date: 2021-03-31 21:34:40 -0500
changelog: "https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/minecraft-snapshot-21w13a"
---

This snapshot adds goats, a darker splash screen, axolotl spawns, and the light block!.

# Goats

Goats have `10` health and take **10 less fall damage** than other mobs.

## Spawning

Goats spawn with a weight of `10`, twice as much as llamas, and in groups of 4-6, the same as llamas.

Spawned goats have a **`2%` chance to be a screaming** goat and swap out their normal sounds for screaming sounds. A screaming goat cannot become a normal goat and vice-versa.

## Speed

Goats have a movement speed of `0.2`, the same as other passive mobs such as cows. Goats get 25% extra speed when following or tempted and double their speed when panicking (when you hit them).

## Jumping

Goats will search for a block to jump to in a **11x11x11** cube centered on the goat. When the jump behavior is triggered, every tick, the goat will pick a random block in that cube. The blocks are weighted by distance squared, so, **a goat is four times as likely to pick a 10 block jump rather than a 5 block jump**.

When the goat tries a potential jumping location, it checks:

- If it can pathfind there normally by walking 7 blocks
- If it will collide with blocks on the way
- If the jump velocity exceeds 1.5 blocks/tick

If any of these conditions are satisfied, the goat will *not* use that jump. **Goats will try up to 20 times** (and spend up to 20 ticks) looking for a jump.

Once a goat finds a jump, it **prepares for 40 ticks** (2 seconds) before jumping. Then, it sets a  **`600-1200` tick cooldown** (30-60 seconds, uniform random, both ends inclusive) between the next jump. This cooldown is also set when the goat spawns.

If a goat is moved to a different block at any time while searching for or preparing a jump, the jump will be cancelled, and will have to wait half the usual cooldown for another jump.

Goats will not try to jump if they are standing on a honey block.

# Underwater Mob Spawns

**Glow Squids and Axolotls** now count towards the `underground_water_creature` mob cap instead of the old water creature cap. Both caps hold **5 mobs** in singleplayer. They spawn in packs of **4-6** anywhere **below sea level** (`y=63`) and below the ocean if in an ocean biome. The bottom of the ocean is determined when the world first generates, placing blocks won't change the spawning location.

Note: Underwater mob spawns are [bugged](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-221655) in 21w13a. This was fixed in [21w16a](/snapshots/21w16a).

# Freeze Damage

Mobs in the `freeze_hurts_extra_types` entity tag (Striders, Blazes, Magma Cubes) will take **5 times** more damage from freezing. The time it takes to get frozen does not change.

# Edits

## April 14 2021

- Added that the jump cooldown is also set on spawn
- ~~Verified that the jump velocity is in blocks/sec~~

## April 15 2021

- Added axolotl and glow squid pack size and spawning conditions

## April 21 2021

- Covered the underwater mob spawning bug

## November 4 2022

- Jump velocity is in blocks/tick

