---
layout: post
title: "Minecraft 22w14a"
date: 2022-04-12 22:38:43 -0500
changelog: "https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/minecraft-snapshot-22w14a"
---

This snapshot brings the new mangrove swamp biome.

# Warden

**The warden now pathfinds through powder snow and magma blocks**, although the warden still freezes in powder snow.

Shooting projectiles generate 10 anger instead of 20.

Some of the warden changes in [22w12a](/snapshots/22w12a) were reverted. Fluids now push the warden again, and the warden no longer has increased speed compared to other mobs in water.

## Spawning

**If the warden is spawned from a shrieker**, then `PersistanceRequired` is set to true, and the warden will not despawn if the player is too far away. Wardens spawned through spawn eggs still despawn.

While the warden is emerging or digging, its hitbox shrinks to 1 block in height.

# Mangrove Swamp

Mangrove swamps have temperature 0.8 and downfall 0.9.

Slimes spawn in mangrove swamps with the same conditions as regular swamps.

Warm variant frogs spawn in groups of 2-5.

Mangrove swamps can spawn mineshafts, ruined portals, but **cannot spawn witch huts**.

# Mangrove Tree

Mangrove trees have a 75% chance to be the tall variant and a **5% chance to have a bee hive** when grown or naturally generated.

Propagules will not generate within a 3x1x3 box of another propagule.

# Sculk

Sculk veins and catalysts now only drop when mined with a silk touch hoe, fixing [MC-249659](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-249659)

When a stack of entities steps on a sculk sensor, it will activate if a player is the *controlling passenger*.

# Advancements

Two new advancements were added:
- "Birthday Song" - `husbandry/allay_deliver_cake_to_noteblock`
- "You Got a Friend in Me" - `husbandry/allay_deliver_item_to_player`

# Other

Frogs now deal 10 base damage when trying to eat another mob. The frog only eats the mob if that mob dies as a result of the attack.

Pointed dripstone turns mud into clay at the same rate as dripping water into a water cauldron.

The ancient city start generation height changed from `y=-52` to `y=-51`.

# Tags

Three new block tags were added:

```
#dead_bush_may_place_on
#mangrove_logs_can_grow_through
#mangrove_roots_can_grow_through
```

Two tags for cat variants were added in the `cat_variant` folder:

```
#default_spawns
#full_moon_spawns
```

The entity tag `#frog_food` was added.

The event tag `#warden_events_can_listen` was renamed to `#warden_can_listen`.

The item tag `#compasses` was added.

