---
layout: post
title: "Minecraft 22w17a"
date: 2022-04-27 17:34:13 -0500
changelog: "https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/minecraft-snapshot-22w17a"
---

A smaller snapshot this time, adding goat horns.

# Goat

Goats normally spawn with two horns. There is a 10% chance for a goat to spawn with only one horn, with an equal chance to be the left or the right horn. Baby goats do not have horns.

When the goat rams into a block, it will drop and remove one of its horns. If the goat has two horns, there is an equal chance for the left or right horn to drop.

Goat horns are spawned as an item with -0.2 to 0.2 initial velocity in the x and z directions, and 0.3 to 0.7 initial velocity in the y direction, chosen uniform random.

# Goat Horn

"Admire", "Call", "Yearn", and "Dream" are exclusive to screaming goats.

Goat horns have a **7 second cooldown** and can be heard up to **256 blocks away**.

The goat horn sound is in the `record` sound category.

Goat horns generate with 0-1 rolls in outpost chests.

# Warden

The Warden's ranged attack deals **10 raw damage, regardless of the difficulty** or attack damage attribute. The attack is classified as a magic attack, similar to harming potions.

# Sculk

Sculk block strength and blast resistance changed from 0.6 to 0.2.

When a mob dies near a sculk catalyst, the spreader cursors start at the block 0.5 blocks above the mob's death position.

Sculk can now replace polished deepslate during world generation.

# Misc

Blocks destroyed by explosions will drop xp (or any other materials that drop when mined by a player) if that explosion was marked as caused by a player.

[MC-249962](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-249962) was fixed. End crystals now produce emit a level 15 (explosion) game event signal.

Signed chat messages expire after 2 minutes.

The "Привет Россия!" ("Hello Russia!") splash text was removed.

# Sounds

The `entity.goat.horn_break` and `item.goat_horn.sound.#` (# is a number 0-7) sounds were added.

`entity.goat.screaming.horn_break` is supposed to play when a screaming goat breaks a horn, but it does not have a corresponding sound file. `item.goat_horn.play` is registered in the code, but it is unused and has no sound file. This is tracked in [MC-250924](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-250924).

# Tags

Some tags were added and removed:
```diff
+ blocks/overworld_natural_logs
+ items/overworld_natural_logs
+ blocks/snaps_goat_horn
+ game_events/allay_can_listen
- game_events/dampenable_vibrations
```

