---
layout: post
title: "Minecraft 22w42a"
date: 2022-11-04 22:11:25 -0400
---

The first 1.19.3 (and 1.20) snapshot is here! See the [changelog](https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/minecraft-snapshot-22w42a).

# Experimental Features

Some features are experimental and only appear in worlds when certain **feature flags** are enabled. The three feature flags are `VANILLA`, `BUNDLE`, and `UPDATE_1_20`.

If a custom loot table selects a disabled item, then the loot table will act as if it selected **nothing**. As an example, take a mob that drops oak planks or bamboo planks with 50-50 chance when all features are enabled. When bamboo planks are disabled, that mob will instead drop oak planks or nothing with 50-50 chance.

# Camels

Camels have **32 health** (16 hearts), a 0.09 movement speed attribute, and a 0.42 jump strength attribute.

| Pose            | Length | Height | Width | Eye height | Passenger offset |
| --------------- | ------ | ------ | ----- | ---------- | ---------------- |
| Standing        | 1.7    | 2.375  | 1.7   | 2.275      | 1.775            |
| Sitting         | 1.7    | 0.945  | 1.7   | 0.845      | 0.345            |
| Standing (baby) | 0.85   | 1.1875 | 0.85  | 1.0875     | 1.525            |
| Sitting (baby)  | 0.85   | 0.4725 | 0.85  | 0.3725     | 0.095            |

If a camel is sprinting and not on dash cooldown, then the camel has effectively 0.1 more movement speed (the movement speed attribute stays unchanged).

A camel takes 40 ticks (2 seconds) to sit down and 52 ticks (2.6 seconds) to stand up.

Camels cannot be pushed by entities while sitting or transitioning poses, but **they can be moved by pistons.**

**Feeding cactus to a camel heals it by 2 health** (1 heart).

A new structure was added: `village/desert/camel`

## Dash

Dash cooldown is **55 ticks** (2.75 seconds).

Dashing works by adding the dash velocity in blocks/tick to the camel's current velocity.

The horizontal part of the dash velocity is given by  
`22.2222 * jumpScale * movementSpeed * blockSpeedFactor`  
where
- `jumpScale` is how full the jump bar is, from 0 to 1
- `movementSpeed` is the movement speed attribute
- `blockSpeedFactor` is 0.4 if the camel is on soul sand or honey, and 1 otherwise

The vertical part of the dash velocity is given by  
`1.4285 * jumpScale * (jumpStrength * blockJumpFactor + 0.1 * jumpBoostAmplifier)`  
where
- `jumpScale` is how full the jump bar is, from 0 to 1
- `jumpStrength` is the jump strength attribute
- `blockJumpFactor` is 0.5 if the camel is on honey, and 1 otherwise
- `jumpBoostAmplifier` is the jump boost potion effect level, where 0 is no effect, 1 is Jump Boost I, and so on

With no potion effects and default movement speed and jump strength, a camel's maximum dash velocity is 2 blocks/tick horizontally and 0.6 blocks/tick vertically. Each jump boost level gives about 23.81% more vertical velocity.

## AI

**Camels immediately stand up when taking damage**. **A leashed camel will stand up if the leash is at least 6 blocks away** and the camel is not transitioning poses.

A camel will randomly sit down or stand up if
- it is not walking
- it is not in water
- it is not leashed
- it is on the ground
- it has been standing for at least 348 ticks (17.4 seconds) or sitting for at least 360 ticks (18 seconds)
- it does not have a passenger that controls its movement (like a player)

Baby camels will follow adults when they are between 5-16 blocks of each other.

Camels have a 2x speed modifier while idling, a 2.5x multiplier when tempted by cactus or following an adult, and a 4x multiplier when panicking.

# Allay

Allays immediately stop dancing when panicking.

Allays will not pick up items if the held and picked up items have `Potion` tags that are not equal.

# Goats

Breeding two goats now have these chances for the baby to be a screaming goat

|           | Regular | Screaming |
| --------- | ------- | --------- |
| Regular   | 2%      | 51%       |
| Screaming | 51%     | 100%      |

Goats now only jump to opaque full cube blocks that mobs can pathfind normally over.

# Other Mobs

Horses, donkeys, and mules without passengers now have a 1/3 chance to rear when hurt.

Rabbits now always drop 1 meat.

If the target block, the block below, or the block above are fluids, then the frog will not jump. Otherwise, the frog will jump if the below conditions are met:
- the target block or the block below are in the `#frog_prefer_jump_to` tag (lily pad and big dripleaf)
- the target block or the block below is a trapdoor
- the target block is an opaque full cube block that mobs can pathfind normally over

# Bamboo

Bamboo wood has the same hardness and blast resistance values as other wood types. Bamboo mosaic blocks have the same hardness and blast resistance values as the corresponding plank blocks.

All bamboo blocks [except mosaic slabs](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-256623) have the same flammability as overworld wood types.

The axe is the best tool for all bamboo wood, including mosaic blocks.

# Chiseled Bookshelf

Chiseled bookshelves have a hardness and blast resistance value of 1.5, the same as regular bookshelves.

Chiseled bookshelves **smelt 1.5 items per block**, the same as regular bookshelves.

The axe is the best tool for chiseled bookshelves, but **silk touch is required** to drop the block.

# Hanging Signs

Hanging signs have a hardness and blast resistance value of 1, the same as regular signs.

Players unlock the hanging sign recipe when they obtain stripped logs.

**Crouch clicking places signs in the opposite configuration.**

The max text line width is 50 (90 for regular signs) and the text line height is 8 (10 for regular signs).

# Misc

The pressure plate hitbox was changed from 0.75 blocks wide to 0.875 blocks wide.

Beacons now keep their name when placed down and mined.

Stronghold placement works the **exact** same way as before, the only change is which random numbers are picked for each seed.

Panorama scroll speed is bound from 0% to 100% even when edited in options.txt, though [saving panorama scroll speed currently doesn't work](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-256476).

[MC-112826](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-112826) was fixed but not included in the changelog.

# Tags

Added five new block tags:
```
all_hanging_signs (1.20)
ceiling_hanging_sign (1.20)
wall_hanging_signs (1.20)
invalid_spawn_inside
stripped_logs
```

Added the `stripped_logs` item tag.

The `#invalid_spawn_inside` block tag defines blocks that a player cannot spawn inside when respawning or getting up from a bed or respawn anchor. If there are no valid spawn locations, the bed or respawn anchor is obstructed.

# Data

Added five new splashes:
```
You are valid!  
I'm glad you're here!  
You are welcome here!  
Your gender is valid!  
Contains infinite genders!
```

The client jar now contains these folders:
```
chat_type
datapacks
dimension_type
worldgen
```

Chat types are in this format:
```json
{
  "chat": {
    "parameters": [
      "sender (optional)",
      "target (optional)",
      "content (optional)"
    ],
    "style (optional)": {
      "(various style fields)"
    },
    "translation_key": "<translation key>"
  },
  "narration": {
    "parameters": [
      "sender (optional)",
      "target (optional)",
      "content (optional)"
    ],
    "translation_key": "<translation key>"
  }
}
```

The translation key points to a format string such as `<%s> %s`. The string will be formatted with the message sender, target (for private messages), and content in the order they are listed in the `parameters` field. For example, if the parameters are `sender` then `content`, then `<%s> %s` will become `<sender> content`.

The `(various style fields)` is the style fields such as `color` and `bold` defined in the [json chat format](https://wiki.vg/Chat#Shared_between_all_components).

The `chat_type` folder contains these chat types:
```
chat
emote_command
msg_command_incoming
msg_command_outgoing
say_command
team_msg_command_incoming
team_msg_command_outgiong
```

# Chat

The chat signing and chat reporting formats have changed. These changes may be covered at a later time.

