---
layout: post
title: "Minecraft 22w15a"
date: 2022-04-13 16:13:56 -0500
---

This snapshot gives the warden a massive buff. See the [changelog](https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/minecraft-snapshot-22w15a).

# Warden

The warden's vertical sniffing range was increased from 6 to 20, though the horizontal range remains the same.

When the warden stops roaring, its attack target is set to the entity that triggered the roar.

If a shrieker is broken before it can spawn the warden, the warden will immediately spawn.

## Sonic Boom

The warden's sonic boom takes **34 ticks (1.7 seconds) to start**, and the animation lasts for 26 more ticks (1.3 seconds) for a total of 60 ticks (3 seconds).

The sonic boom attack range is effectively a **cylinder with radius 15 and height 40** centered on the warden. The attack hits **only the warden's current target**. The attack hits **instantly**, taking no time to travel.

The sonic boom does the **same damage as the warden's melee attack**. It can be blocked by shields, but it will disable the shield.

There is a **100 tick (5 second) cooldown** on the sonic boom when the warden uses either a melee or ranged attack, and a **200 tick (10 second)** cooldown when the warden switches or finds a target.

# Mangrove

Mangrove roots have a 30% chance to add one level to a composter.

Mangrove logs can now grow through moss carpets and vines.

Mangrove roots can now grow through moss carpets, vines, propagules, and snow layers.

## Mangrove Trees

Moss carpets have a 50% chance to be placed on top of mangrove roots in a mangrove tree.

The tall mangrove tree probability changed from 75% to 85%.

The mangrove tree beehive probability changed from 5% to 1%.

# Other

Entities will only emit game events when any of the following is true:
- The entity is on the ground
- Its y velocity is *exactly* `0.0`
- The entity is in powder snow
- Its position is within a climbable block such as ladders or vines

When an allay, piglin, or villager throws an item, its ID is added to the item data so that the `thrown_item_picked_up_by_player` trigger can activate.

# Advancements

Two new advancements were added:
- "Sneak 100" - `adventure/avoid_vibration`
- "When the Squad Hops into Town" - `leash_all_frog_variants`

The "Birthday Song" advancement was internally renamed from `adventure/allay_deliver_cake_to_noteblock` to `adventure/allay_deliver_cake_to_note_block`.

# Tags

Mud and muddy mangrove roots are now counted in `#dirt` block and item tags.

Three new block tags not mentioned in the changelog were added:
```
completes_find_tree_tutorial
nether_carver_replaceables
boverworld_carver_replaceables
```

Two new item tags not mentioned in the changelog were added:
```
completes_find_tree_tutorial
wart_blocks
```

The `#dampens_vibrations` block tag also has a corresponding item tag.

# Edits

## April 14 2022

- Corrected tall mangrove tree chance
- Fixed typo

