---
layout: post
title: "Minecraft 22w13a"
date: 2022-04-01 02:15:04 -0500
changelog: "https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/minecraft-snapshot-22w13a"
---

The allay is here!.

Some features are ported from the [experimental snapshot](/snapshots/1-19-experimental-1), so read that post to get up to speed.

# Allay

The allay has 10 health, a 0.3 movement speed attribute, and a **48 follow range attribute**. Although the allay does not attack anything, it has a 2 attack damage attribute.

The allay's hitbox is 0.35×0.6×0.35, with the eye height at 60% or 0.36 blocks up from the bottom.

The allay cannot be hurt by its liked player.

The `ALLAY_DUST` particle was added.

## Item Collection

Allays will search in a **9 block radius** for the same item it was given, according to the item ID. **Item durability and NBT data is ignored.** The allay has a 2x speed multiplier while searching. The allay can pick up items in a 2.35×2.6×2.35 box, or a 1 block reach in each direction.

If an allay cannot find any wanted items, it will move towards its target (a player or note block) and throw the items when it is within a 3 block radius. The allay has a 1.25x speed multiplier while following its target.

Items are thrown starting at 0.06 blocks above the bottom of the allay's hitbox. There is a **5 second cooldown** after throwing items to the allay's target before it can pick up more items.

The allay must be within a **16 block radius** of a note block to set the note block as its target.

## Spawning

Two allays spawn in the `pillager_outpost/feature_cage_with_allays` structure, which has the same chance of spawning as the two other cage structures.

1-3 allays spawn four times in the `woodland_mansion/2x2_a1` (large jail) structure.

# Frogs

When a frog eats a mob, it plays a 6 tick catching animation, eats the mob, then plays a 10 tick eating animation before it can do other things.

Frogs can no longer eat while croaking.

The biomes that spawn specific frog variants have changed:

- Warm oceans now spawn warm variant frogs.
- Meadows and stony peaks now spawn temperate variant frogs.
- Frozen oceans, deep frozen oceans, frozen rivers, snowy beaches, snowy taigas, groves, and the deep dark now spawns cold variant frogs.

# Warden

**The warden and *only* the warden can pathfind over rails.**

**The warden will now listen to note blocks.**

# Sculk

When sculk spreads and tries to place a block, there is a 1/11 (or 9.091%) chance that block will be a shrieker, otherwise that block will be a sensor.

**Sculk shriekers can now be obtained with silk touch.**

# Advancements

Three new advancements were added:

- "It spreads" - `adventure/kill_mob_near_sculk_catalyst`
- "Bukkit bukkit" - `husbandry/tadpole_in_a_bucket`
- "Froglights" - `husbandry/froglights`

# Tags

The `note_block_play` game event was added. The game event is in the `#vibrations` tag.

The `#ancient_city_replaceable` and `#ancient_city_center_replaceable` block tags and the `#ignore_vibrations_on_occluding_block` game event tags were added.

**The `#carpets` block tag was renamed to `#wool_carpets`.**

The `#spawns_cold_variant_frogs` biome tag no longer uses the `#is_mountain` tag, all the biomes are listed individually instead.

# Other Changes

**Pistons can no longer push reinforced deepslate.**

Mangrove leaves now drop sticks like other leaves. Fortune affects the number of sticks dropped.

# Ancient City

Ancient cities now always spawn at `y=-52`.

There are many changes to the ancient city structures and loot tables. The structure files now use this folder structure:

- city
	- entrance
		- bottom_piece_1.nbt
		- bottom_piece_2.nbt
		- bottom_piece_3.nbt
		- bottom_piece.nbt
		- entrance_connector.nbt
		- entrance_path_1.nbt
		- entrance_path_2.nbt
		- entrance_path_3.nbt
		- entrance_path_4.nbt
		- entrance_path_5.nbt
		- top_piece.nbt
- city_center
	- city_center_1.nbt
	- city_center_2.nbt
	- city_center_3.nbt
	- walls
		- bottom_1.nbt
		- bottom_2.nbt
		- bottom_left_corner.nbt
		- bottom_right_corner_1.nbt
		- bottom_right_corner_2.nbt
		- bottom_right_corner.nbt
		- left.nbt
		- right.nbt
		- top_left_corner.nbt
		- top.nbt
		- top_right_corner.nbt
- structures
	- barracks.nbt
	- camp_1.nbt
	- camp_2.nbt
	- camp_3.nbt
	- chamber_1.nbt
	- chamber_2.nbt
	- chamber_3.nbt
	- ice_box_1.nbt
	- large_pillar_1.nbt
	- large_ruin_1.nbt
	- medium_pillar_1.nbt
	- medium_ruin_1.nbt
	- medium_ruin_2.nbt
	- sauna_1.nbt
	- small_portal_statue.nbt
	- small_ruin_1.nbt
	- small_ruin_2.nbt
	- small_statue.nbt
	- tall_ruin_1.nbt
	- tall_ruin_2.nbt
	- tall_ruin_3.nbt
	- tall_ruin_4.nbt
- walls
	- intact_corner_wall_1.nbt
	- intact_horizontal_wall_1.nbt
	- intact_horizontal_wall_2.nbt
	- intact_horizontal_wall_bridge.nbt
	- intact_horizontal_wall_passage_1.nbt
	- intact_horizontal_wall_stairs_1.nbt
	- intact_horizontal_wall_stairs_2.nbt
	- intact_horizontal_wall_stairs_3.nbt
	- intact_horizontal_wall_stairs_4.nbt
	- intact_horizontal_wall_stairs_upward.nbt
	- intact_intersection_wall_1.nbt
	- intact_lshape_wall_1.nbt
	- ruined_corner_wall_1.nbt
	- ruined_corner_wall_2.nbt
	- ruined_horizontal_wall_stairs_1.nbt
	- ruined_horizontal_wall_stairs_2.nbt
	- ruined_horizontal_wall_stairs_3.nbt
	- ruined_horizontal_wall_stairs_4.nbt

# Edits

## April 1 2022

- Completed frog variant biome changes
- Added ancient city spawn y level
- Added sculk spread shrieker chance
- Clarified mangrove leaves change

