---
layout: post
title: "Minecraft 22w46a"
date: 2022-11-24 16:16:25 -0400
changelog: "https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/minecraft-snapshot-22w46a"
---

A new snapshot is out, adding playable mob sounds.

# Changes

Piglin heads reduce piglin detection range and work as firework ingredients, similar to other mob heads.

Endermen now drop their held item using loot tables. The game simulates mining the block with a silk touch diamond axe.

Each hanging sign recipe is now unlocked by having that sign's stripped log in your inventory (or stripped bamboo blocks for bamboo hanging signs).

# Tags

Added `#all_signs` block tag, containing `#signs` and `#all_hanging_signs` (1.20).

Removed the `#stripped_logs` block and item tag.

# Telemetry

Telemetry is only enabled for players using a Microsoft account. Telemetry cannot be disabled without modding.

The following data is sent for all events:
- User ID (XUID)
- Client ID (launcher identifier)
- Minecraft Session ID (random UUID generated at boot)
- Game Version
- Operating system (one of linux, solaris, windows, mac, unknown)
- Platform (`os.name` system property)
- Client Modded (whether the game detects a modded client)
- Event Timestamp (UTC)
- **Opt-In (whether the user has opted-in to optional events) (new)**
- World Session ID (random UUID generated when starting to play a world)
- Server Modded (whether the client received a custom packet with identifier "brand" with the content "vanilla")
- Server Type (realm/local/other)

The client Java version is no longer sent.

The following data is sent for the `WorldLoaded` event:
- Game Mode

The following data is sent for the `WorldUnloaded` event:
- Time Since Load (Seconds) (in real-time)
- Time Since Load (Ticks) (number of ticks processed)

The following data is sent for the `PerformanceMetrics` event:
- Frame Rate Samples (FPS)
- Render Time Samples
- Used Random Access Memory (RAM usage samples)
- Sample Count
- Render Distance
- Dedicated Memory (kB)

The game tries to take a sample every tick, and takes a sample if one real-time minute has passed since the last sample. Once 10 samples are reached, they are sent to Mojang and the samples are cleared.

The following data is sent for the `WorldLoadTimes` event:
- World Load Time (Miliseconds)
- New World (whether the loaded world is a brand new world)

