---
layout: post
title: "Minecraft 23w33a"
date: 2023-08-18 17:46:55 -0500
changelog: "https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/minecraft-snapshot-23w33a"
---

This snapshot adds skin/name reporting and mob attack reach changes.

## Mob Attack Reach Changes

When an entity is riding a vehicle, the bottom of its bounding box is set to the passenger's riding position. The top of the passenger's bounding box remains unchanged.

The area where a mob can attack is its bounding box extended by `0.8282856485126004` blocks in each horizontal direction. If the mob is riding another entity, then the mob can attack entities within range of either the passenger or vehicle horizontally and within range of either the passenger or vehicle vertically.

Ravagers use the above calculations, but have their attack range reduced by 0.05 blocks horizontally.

## Misc

Sponges and wet sponges now have unique place, hit, break, step, and fall sounds.

Chorus flower and spore blossom were added to the `#flowers` block/item tag, fixing [MC-214126](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-214126).

If an item is unstackable due to renaming in an anvil ([MC-125046](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-125046)) or using in a grindstone ([MC-181109](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-181109)), renaming it in an anvil again will remove the `{RepairCost:0}` NBT and allow the item to be stackable.

## Player Reporting

Clicking the report button in the social interactions screen now shows a menu to pick the report type: chat, skin, or username. The chat report button is disabled if the target player has no recent messages or if chat message cannot be verified. The skin and name report buttons are always enabled.

### Report Reasons

Players only select a reason in chat and skin reports.

Added a new report reason: "I want to report them", internally called `generic`.
> I'm annoyed with them / they have done something I do not like.

"Defamation, impersonation, or false information" was changed to "Defamation".
> Someone is damaging **your or** someone else's reputation, ~~pretending to be someone they're not, or~~ **for example** sharing false information with the aim to exploit or mislead others.

"Imminent harm - Threat to harm others" was changed to "Threat of harm to others".

"Imminent harm - Self-harm or suicide" was changed to "Self-harm or suicide".

No changes were made to the reasons that display when a player is banned.

### Report Content

Reports are sent using `POST https://api.minecraftservices.com/player/report`. Players must be authenticated to send any type of report.

Player reports send:

- The report system version (currently `1`)
- A random report UUID
- Report content
	- Opinion comments
	- Reason **(not present in username reports)**
	- Chat message evidence **(only present in chat reports)**
	- **Skin URL (sometimes present in skin reports)**
	- Reported player's UUID
	- Report creation timestamp
- Client information
	- Client version
	- Client locale
- Third party server information (if playing on a server)
	- Server address
- Realm information (if playing on a realm)
	- Realm ID
	- Slot ID
- **Report type (one of `chat`, `skin`, `username`)**

Skin reports send the skin URL unless any of the following happens:
- The reported player does not have a custom skin active
- The reported player is displaying a default skin due to an error
- The reported player is displaying a default skin because the custom skin's signature could not be verified

Reports use the following JSON format:

```json
{
  "version": 1,
  "id": "(random uuid)",
  "report": {
    "opinionComments": "...",
    "reason": "...",
    "evidence": {...},
    "skinUrl": "...",
    "reportedEntity": {
      "profileId": "(uuid)"
    },
    "createdTime": (time)
  },
  "clientInfo": {
    "clientVersion": "...",
    "locale": "..."
  },
  "thirdPartyServerInfo": {
    "address": "..."
  },
  "realmInfo": {
    "realmId": "...",
    "slotId": (integer)
  },
  "reportType": "(one of chat/skin/username)"
}
```

## Mojang API

The `GET https://sessionserver.mojang.com/session/minecraft/profile/<uuid>` endpoint now includes whether the account is banned due to a banned skin or name. This is public information, since the API endpoint does not require authentication. The response includes an optional `profileActions` field, a list that may contain `FORCED_NAME_CHANGE` or `USING_BANNED_SKIN`:

```json
{
  ...
  "profileActions": [
    "FORCED_NAME_CHANGE",
    "USING_BANNED_SKIN"
  ],
  ...
}
```

The `GET https://sessionserver.mojang.com/session/minecraft/hasJoined` endpoint also includes `profileActions`, but servers currently don't do anything with this information.

