---
layout: post
title: "Minecraft 24w09a"
date: 2024-03-01 23:11:22 -0400
---

This snapshot improves wolf armor and introduces data components. See the [changelog](https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/minecraft-snapshot-24w09a).

## Wolf Armor

Wolf armor now absorbs all damage, causing the wolf to take no damage from most sources until the armor breaks.

Wolf armor protects against the same damage types as [player armor](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Armor#Damage_types) (except thorns). Wolf armor also protects against:

- Magma blocks
- Standing in/on fire
- Lava
- Warden's sonic boom
- Dragon's breath
- Fall damage

Wolf armor can be dyed using the same mechanics as leather armor.

Wolf armor has 64 durability, and cracks at 95% (60.8), 69% (44.16), and 32% (20.48) durability. If the wolf is sitting, the owner can use armadillo scutes to repair up to 8 durability on the armor.

Wolf armor cannot be enchanted in survival. If enchanted in creative or with commands, only Unbreaking, Curse of Binding, and Curse of Vanishing are functional.

## Bogged

Shearing a Bogged drops two mushrooms, each with an equal chance to be red or brown. A sheared Bogged does not regrow mushrooms.

## Wind Charge

Player and Breeze wind charges no longer have a random explosion radius, though the projectiles are still shot with some random inaccuracy.

| Type                 | Explosion Radius | Max Range        |
| -------------------- | ---------------- | ---------------- |
| `wind_charge`        | 1-1.3 -> **1.2** | 2-2.6 -> **2.4** |
| `breeze_wind_charge` | 3-4 -> **3**     | 6-8 -> **6**     |

## Vault

If the `key_item` field is omitted, the vault no longer defaults to the trial key, and instead the vault cannot be opened with any item.

## Misc

All bow and crossbow enchantments [except Quick Charge](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-268814) work on the alternate weapon.

The `profile.name` field in player heads is now limited to 0-16 characters and can only contain letters, numbers, and underscores (`_`).

The game shows the low disk space warning when there is less than 64 MiB free disk space, not 64 MB as mentioned in the changelog.

## Edits

### Mar 3 2024

- Add section on bow/crossbow enchantments

