---
layout: post
title: "Minecraft 24w12a"
date: 2024-03-20 20:39:21 -0500
changelog: "https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/minecraft-snapshot-24w12a"
---

This snapshot makes it easier to find trial chambers and create cursed videos.

## Trial Chambers

The world is split into 34×34 chunk squares (up from 32×32), and a trial chamber is placed in a random position within each square (unless generation fails). Trial chambers are at least 12 chunks away (up from 8) from each other in each x and z directions and at most 56 chunks away.

Cartographer villagers can sell a Trial Chambers Map for 12 emeralds. The trade can be used 12 times, giving the villager 10 XP per trade.

## Heavy Core

The heavy core now has **10 hardness**, **1200 blast resistance**, and can be pushed and pulled by pistons.

The heavy core still does not have an assigned tool, as [MC-269355](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-269355) is not fixed. It takes **15 seconds** to mine regardless of tool used.

The `orientation` block state was removed, fixing [MC-269356](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-269356).

## The Mace

The mace now breaks cobwebs at normal speed, fixing [MC-269513](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-269513).

If a player hits another entity on the ground with the mace after falling for more than 5 blocks, a "heavier" version of the mace impact sound will play. It has the same title as the regular impact sound.

## Advancements

The Blowback advancement gives 40 XP, and the Over-Overkill advancement gives 50 XP.

The Who Needs Rockets? advancement is granted after a player launches themselves **7 blocks**, not 8 blocks as mentioned in the changelog. Note that the launch distance is measured from where the player was when they were hit with the wind charge's explosion to the position where the player started falling downwards. If a player jumps up 1 block, then uses a wind charge to launch themselves upwards 6 blocks, that counts as a 6 block launch (not 7) for the purposes of the advancement.

The Crafters Crafting Crafters advancement is granted to players within a 34x34x34 box centered on the crafter when the crafter crafts a crafter.

The Over-Overkill advancement is granted if the player does 50 hearts of damage with the mace in their main hand, even if the damage wasn't directly caused by swinging the mace.

## Tags

The `#structure/on_trial_chambers_maps` worldgen structure tag was added.

## Entity Data

Players no longer have the `ignore_fall_damage_above_y` NBT tag. Instead, the `current_explosion_impact_pos` NBT tag (list of 3 doubles) and the `ignore_fall_damage_from_current_explosion` boolean tag are set to the player's position when the player is knocked back by an explosion.

These tags are also set when the player hits another entity with a mace in order to prevent fall damage.

## Item Components

Comparators correctly read the signal strength of containers with items that have modified max stack sizes. For example, a decorated pot with 2 swords with max stack size 2 and a decorated pot with 1 sword with max stack size 1 both read signal strength 15.

Different methods of combining two items to repair them have slightly different behavior when given items with varying `max_damage`, `max_stack_size`, and other components:

| Method     | Item Count | `max_damage` Component | Other Components       |
| ---------- | ---------- | ---------------------- | ---------------------- |
| Grindstone | 1          | Higher of both inputs  | Copied from first item |
| Anvil      | Any        | Copied from first item | Copied from first item |
| Crafting   | 1          | Higher of both inputs  | None                   |

The anvil can repair multiple items in a stack at once for no additional XP cost.

