---
layout: post
title: "Minecraft 24w44a"
date: 2024-11-01 18:34:48 -0500
changelog: "https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/minecraft-snapshot-24w44a"
---

This snapshot adds new features to the Pale Garden.

## Changelog

Although the following lines are in the 24w44a changelog, they are not new to this snapshot:

- Creaking Heart can be obtained by using a Silk Touch enchanted tool
- Naturally generated Pale Oak trees have Pale Hanging Moss hanging from the foliage, Pale Moss patches on the ground, and Creaking Heart blocks can generate in them
- Pale Hanging Moss breaks instantly when mined
- Pale Hanging Moss requires shears or silk touch tools to be obtained
- Illagers are scared of Creaking and will run away from them
- The following changes apply for naturally spawning Creaking:
  - Is fire-resistant
  - Creaking Heart decides to remove or replace the connected Creaking when:
    - It turns day
    - The Creaking is too far away from the Creaking Heart

## Eyeblossoms

Placing an eyeblossom into a composter has a **65% chance** of raising the compost level by 1, like other flowers.

Bees get Poison 1 for **25 ticks** when they touch eyeblossoms.

Suspicious stew crafted from open eyeblossoms gives Blindness 1 for **7 seconds**, and closed eyeblossoms give Nausea 1 for **7 seconds**.

### Opening and Closing

Eyeblossoms open if and only if the [internal sky light](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Light#Internal_sky_light) is **11 or lower**, the same as Creaking Hearts. Eyeblossoms do not open or close right away, instead they transform when random ticked.

A transformed eyeblossom notifies all other eyeblossoms in a 7×5×7 area, causing them to also transform after a random delay scaling with the distance between flowers $d$:

$$ \text{minDelayTicks} = \lfloor 5d \rfloor \quad \text{maxDelayTicks} = \lfloor 10d \rfloor $$

The delay ranges from 5 to 46 ticks. A notified eyeblossom can notify other eyeblossoms if it transformed.

## Resin

Resin Bricks and all variants have a hardness of 1.5 and a blast resistance of 6.

Resin Clumps can be ignited by lava.

## Woodland Mansion

Woodland mansion chests can now contain Resin Clumps and Bricks. The game draws items 1-4 times from the pool containing resin.

| Item        | Count | Weight | Chance\* | Avg Per Chest |
| ----------- | ----- | ------ | -------- | ------------- |
| Resin Clump | 2-4   | 50/175 | 53.769%  | 3.429         |
| Resin Brick | 1-2   | 50/175 | 53.769%  | 1.714         |

\* Chance is the odds of finding at least one of this item in a single chest

Resin Clumps and Bricks were added to the pool containing the below items, making them somewhat more rare to obtain:
- Wheat
- Bread
- Coal
- Redstone Dust
- Beetroot Seeds
- Melon Seeds
- Pumpkin Seeds
- Iron Ingot
- Bucket
- Gold Ingot

## Creaking

The Creaking now does 3 damage on Easy/Normal, and 4 damage on Hard. Its movement speed was increased from 0.2 when idle and 0.3 when fighting to 0.3 when idle and 0.4 when fighting. Its step height was increased from 1 to 1.0625.

The Creaking can now pathfind through fire and lava.

When the Creaking's Heart is destroyed, it plays a death animation for 45 ticks, then disappears.

The speed at which evokers flee from the Creaking has changed. Evokers flee at their normal walking speed until they reach 7 blocks away, then they flee at 60% speed until they reach 8 blocks away.

## Creaking Heart

The Creaking Heart drops 1-6 Resin Clumps based on the Fortune enchantment level:

| Count       | 1    | 2   | 3   | 4   | 5   | 6    |
| ----------- | ---- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---- |
| No Fortune  | 1/3  | 1/3 | 1/3 |     |     |      |
| Fortune I   | 1/6  | 1/3 | 1/3 | 1/6 |     |      |
| Fortune II  | 1/9  | 2/9 | 1/3 | 2/9 | 1/9 |      |
| Fortune III | 1/12 | 1/6 | 1/4 | 1/4 | 1/6 | 1/12 |

If the player's eye position is inside the Creaking's hitbox for 5 seconds (checked every second when the Creaking Heart's 20-tick timer is 0), the Creaking Heart will despawn the Creaking to prevent trapping the player. If the Creaking Heart is unloaded, the Creaking will not despawn.

### Resin Spreading

When a Creaking is hurt by a player, the Creaking Heart spreads Resin Clumps nearby. The five-second cooldown is independent of the Creaking Heart's 20-tick timer, and is indicated by particles flowing to/from the Creaking.

The Creaking Heart searches for logs that have an open face to place Resin Clumps. It searches in a breadth-first manner, first checking the 6 logs directly next to it in a random order, then checks the logs 2 blocks away from it. The Creaking Heart will not place Resin Clumps on logs that are 3 or more blocks away from the heart.

### Block States

The Creaking Heart's `creaking` block state was replaced with the `active` block state boolean. It becomes active if it is between two correctly aligned pale oak logs (when it receives a shape update), and it becomes inactive if is no longer between two logs (once the 20-tick timer hits 0).

Since the Creaking Heart no longer changes state when it becomes night or day, observers will no longer detect these changes.

Naturally-spawned Creaking Hearts have their `natural` block state set to true.

## Pale Oak Tree

Naturally spawned trees now have a **10% chance** instead of a 20% chance to generate with a Creaking Heart.

Pale oak trees no longer try to place pale moss carpets above logs.

## Pale Moss

| Block            | Weight  | Chance             |
| ---------------- | ------- | ------------------ |
| Pale Moss Carpet | 5       | 29.412% -> 41.667% |
| Short Grass      | 10 -> 5 | 58.824% -> 41.667% |
| Tall Grass       | 2       | 11.765% -> 16.667% |

Pale moss' [flammability](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Fire#Flammable_blocks) changed to 5 "ignite odds" and 100 "burn odds".

## Wandering Trader

Wandering Traders sell open eyeblossoms for 1 emerald. They have 7 in stock.

Contrary to the changelog, Wandering Traders do not sell Resin Clumps. According to [MC-277968](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-277968), this is intentional.

## Mobs

The villager trading window is closed when the player is 7 blocks or more away (in survival mode).

The fix for [MC-277115](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-277115) only applies to the Creaking, not Iron Golems or the Warden. Those mobs can still sometimes spawn inside blocks.

