---
layout: post
title: "Minecraft 24w05a"
date: 2024-01-31 19:06:12 -0400
changelog: "https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/minecraft-snapshot-24w05a"
---

This snapshot unvaults the Vault.

## Trial Chambers

All reward chests (using the `minecraft:chests/trial_chambers/reward` loot table) were replaced with vaults.

## Vault

See the [wiki](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Vault#Block_data) for a list of block data.

The vault has the same hardness (50) and blast resistance (50) as the trial spawner. Vaults have no assigned tool, so it will take 4 minutes, 10 seconds to mine regardless of tool used.

The vault uses the `vault_state` block state to keep track of its current action. Every second, the vault checks for nearby players who haven't used the vault and switches to the `active` state if players are found and the `inactive` state otherwise.

Vaults give off a light level of 6. When a player who hasn't used the vault is nearby, or the vault is currently unlocking or ejecting items (all states except `inactive`), the vault has a light level of 12.

When a player uses the correct item on a vault, it switches to the `unlocking` state, waits 14 ticks, then switches to the `ejecting` state and ejects one item every second until every item is ejected. After one second, the vault returns to the `active` or `inactive` state depending on nearby players.

If the vault is inactive, the `loot_table` tag is `minecraft:empty`, or the `key_item` tag is an empty item (if the tag is missing, it defaults to the trial key and is not empty), then inserting the key won't work and no items will display inside the vault. It is not possible to unlock a vault with an empty hand.

Items displayed inside the vault change every second, using the same distribution as the vault's loot table. If the loot table gives multiple items, one is selected at random with equal probability.

Each vault stores the UUIDs of players who have used the vault in the `rewarded_players` tag, up to 128 players. If another player uses the vault, then the earliest known player who used the vault is forgotten. If the `rewarded_players` NBT tag is edited to contain more than 128 players, only one player is removed each time the vault is used.

## Tags

Added the `#dyeable` item tag, containing leather armor and leather horse armor.

## Misc

Mobs with body armor use the body armor modifier `C1C72771-8B8E-BA4A-ACE0-81A93C8928B2` to modify the `generic.armor` attribute.

The `wind_charge` damage type was removed.

