---
layout: post
title: "Minecraft 24w06a"
date: 2024-02-09 01:47:26 -0400
---

If fighting is sure to result in victory then you must fight! See the [changelog](https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/minecraft-snapshot-24w06a).

## Wind Charge

The wind charge entity was split into `wind_charge` and `breeze_wind_charge`, and the `gust_emitter` particle was split into `gust_emitter_small` and `gust_emitter_large`.

Wind charges and breeze wind charges have different properties:

| Type                 | Explosion Radius | Knockback | Particle             |
| -------------------- | ---------------- | --------- | -------------------- |
| `wind_charge`        | 1 - 1.3          | 110%      | `gust_emitter_small` |
| `breeze_wind_charge` | 3 - 4            | 100%      | `gust_emitter_large` |

The explosion radius is also known as the explosion power. Power does not affect the explosion's knockback.

### Shooting

Using a wind charge item shoots a wind charge with the same mechanics as eggs, enderpearls, and snowballs. The wind charge is shot with some inaccuracy, and the player's velocity is taken into account. The wind charge has no "power" NBT (acceleration, has nothing to do with explosion power).

A player can deflect a wind charge by punching it, even if that player was the one who shot the wind charge, even on the first tick the wind charge was shot. Deflecting a wind charge sets its velocity to the player's looking direction normal vector, and its power (acceleration) to the player's looking direction normal vector scaled to 10%. Deflecting a wind charge does **not** take the player's velocity into account.

Dispensers shoot wind charges with the same mechanics as fire charges. 

<details>
<summary>Exact wind charge shooting mechanics</summary>
<p>The wind charge's velocity is the player's rotation normal vector, plus a random offset between -0.0172275 and 0.0172275 with a triangle distribution in the x, y, and z components, plus the player's velocity.</p>
<p>When shot from a dispenser, the wind charge's power is a random number between 0.88515 and 1.11485 in the facing axis, and a random number between -0.11485 and 0.11485 in other axes, chosen using a triangle distribution. The power vector is then scaled to length 0.1.</p>
</details>

### Explosion

If a block is in the `#blocks_wind_charge_explosions` tag (barrier and bedrock by default), the block is treated as if its blast resistance is 3,600,000, making it impossible for the wind charge explosion to reach past the block.

### Fall Damage

If a player teleports or uses elytra after launching themself with a wind charge but before touching the ground, the player will start taking fall damage as normal.

Players keep track of the y-level they start accumulating damage at with the `ignore_fall_damage_above_y` NBT double tag.

## Mobs

### Breeze

The breeze drops 4-6 wind charges when killed. Looting does not affect the drops.

### Armadillo

If the armadillo detects danger, it takes **10 ticks** to roll up. If it has been **2.5 seconds** since the armadillo has last detected danger, it starts to unroll. The armadillo takes **1.5 seconds** to unroll, rolling back up if it detects danger again.

If the armadillo is rolled up for 5 minutes straight, it will unroll completely without playing an animation.

The armadillo peeking animation has no effect on when it detects danger. The armadillo is always detecting danger.

Armadillos no longer spawn on the types of terracotta blocks that do not naturally generate in badlands.

### Wolf

In previous versions, wolves did 1/2/3 damage (on easy/medium/hard) when untamed and 3/4/6 damage when tamed. Now, wolves always do 3/4/6 whether tamed or untamed.

Existing tamed wolves will have their current health doubled when the world updates, unlike in Bedrock edition.

## Hopper

Hoppers no longer try to pick up item entities if a block whose **collision box** is a full block is placed above it.

The change also applies to hopper minecarts, though this is a confirmed [bug](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-268349).

## Potion Effects

Jump boost now applies an attribute modifier to `generic.safe_fall_distance`, adding 1 per level. The modifier UUID is `C0105BF3-AEF8-46B0-9EBC-92943757CCBE`.

Slow falling sets the effective gravity to 0.01 without modifying the `generic.gravity` attribute. If the gravity attribute is less than 0.01, then slow falling does nothing.

## Attributes

| Attribute                        | Default | Min   | Max  |
| -------------------------------- | ------- | ----- | ---- |
| `player.block_break_speed`       | 1       | 0     | 1024 |
| `generic.fall_damage_multiplier` | 1       | 0     | 100  |
| `generic.gravity`                | 0.08    | -1    | 1    |
| `generic.jump_strength`          | 0.42    | 0     | 32   |
| `generic.safe_fall_distance`     | 3       | -1024 | 1024 |

The gravity of regular squids (not glow squids) is always 0.08 regardless of the `generic.gravity` attribute.

### Flying Detection

On a dedicated server with `allow-flight=false` in `server.properties`, the number of ticks the player can be flying before they are kicked is determined by the formula below, where `g` is gravity:

$$ \left\lceil 80 \max\left(\frac{0.08}{g}, 1\right) \right\rceil $$

80 ticks is the default. Decreasing gravity increases the maximum flying ticks, but increasing gravity above the default will not decrease the maximum flying ticks below 80.

## Tags

Added the `#badlands_terracotta` block tag, containing regular, white, yellow, orange, red, brown, and light gray terracotta.

The `#armadillo_spawnable_on` block tag now uses `#badlands_terracotta` instead of `#terracotta`.

## Edits

### Feb 9 2024

- Added information on how the gravity attribute affects flying detection on dedicated servers
- Clarified that explosion radius is explosion power
- Fixed wrong knockback percentages for wind charges

