---
layout: post
title: "Minecraft 24w03a"
date: 2024-01-19 00:07:38 -0400
changelog: "https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/minecraft-snapshot-24w03a"
---

This snapshot reduces the spawn chunks and adds the long-requested transfer packet!.

## Armadillo

Armadillos now spawn in all badland biomes in groups of 1-2. The armadillo can spawn on `#animal_spawnable_on`, `#terracotta`, red sand, and coarse dirt.

If a spider is within 6 blocks in the x and z directions and 3 blocks in the y direction of an armadillo, the spider will flee to a random point 16 blocks horizontally and 7 blocks vertically within a 90 degree angle away from the armadillo. When the spider's position is 7 or less blocks away from the armadillo's position, the spider has a 20% speed boost while fleeing.

Armadillos are scared of players and mobs within 7 blocks in the x and z directions and 3 blocks in the y direction.

Baby armadillos move 25% faster when following adults instead of 10% faster, fixing [MC-267435](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-267435).

A tempted armadillo follows players from 2 blocks away if it is an adult and 1 block away if it is a baby, 1.5 blocks closer than last snapshot, fixing [MC-267397](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-267397).

## Breeze

The breeze's dimensions have changed:

|     | Width | Height | Eye Height |
| --- | ----- | ------ | ---------- |
| Old | 0.6   | 1.7    | 1.445      |
| New | 0.6   | 1.77   | 1.3452     |

The breeze now drops 10 xp instead of 5 xp.

Projectiles that break on impact, such as ender pearls and ghast fireballs, are not deflected and instead break when hitting the breeze.

## Copper

Stonecutting copper blocks into copper grates now gives 1 grate instead of 4 grates, fixing [MC-266078](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-266078).

## Spawn Chunks

The spawn chunk diameter is determined by `2 * spawnChunkRadius - 1`, so radius 2 creates a 3x3 area of entity ticking chunks. Chunks still propagate like normal, creating a 5x5 area of ticking chunks and a 7x7 area of border chunks by default.

If `spawnChunkRadius` is 0, the spawn chunks are disabled completely, including the ticking and border chunks.

## Misc

`/setworldspawn` now only works in the overworld.

The `generic.block_interaction_range` and `generic.entity_interaction_range` attributes were renamed to `player.block_interaction_range` and `player.entity_interaction_range` respectively, fixing [MC-267422](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-267422).

## Tags

Added the `#armadillo_spawnable_on` block tag.

Added the `#head_armor`, `#chest_armor`, `#leg_armor`, `#boots_armor`, and `#skulls` item tags. The `#head_armor` tag does not include the carved pumpkin.

The `#deflects_arrows` and `#deflects_tridents` entity type tags were combined into the new `#deflects_projectiles` tag.

## Packets

Clients that receive a transfer packet create a new connection to the given host:port, maintaining resource packs and cookies.

Sending cookie data to a vanilla server will disconnect the client with the message, "Unexpected custom data from client".

Servers can request that clients skip authenticating with `sessionserver.mojang.com` with a new flag in the [Encryption Request](https://wiki.vg/Protocol#Encryption_Request) packet. This works even if the client is not transferring. Be aware that authenticating with the session server ensures that there is no man-in-the-middle attack before encryption is enabled.

