---
layout: post
title: "Minecraft 24w40a"
date: 2024-10-07 22:41:09 -0500
changelog: "https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/minecraft-snapshot-24w40a"
---

This snapshot adds the Pale Garden and Creaking, coming this winter.

## Pale Garden

The Pale Garden biome is a variation of the Dark Forest biome. It does not generate mushrooms or flowers, but can still generate sugar cane and pumpkins.

Woodland mansions cannot generate in Pale Gardens, but a woodland mansion that generated in a Dark Forest can extend into a Pale Garden.

## Pale Oak Tree

Pale oak trees are a variation of dark oak trees, and therefore have the same log and leaf placements.

There is an **80% chance** a pale oak tree will simulate bonemealing a pale moss block below a random lowest log, generating pale moss, short grass, and tall grass around the tree.

Each log has a **40% chance** to place a pale moss carpet if there is air above the log, and/or pale hanging moss if there is air below the log. Each leaf block has a **15% chance** to generate pale hanging moss if there is air below the leaf block.

When a pale oak tree generates pale hanging moss, each additional block has a **50% chance** to generate. There is no limit.

Naturally spawned trees have a **20% chance** to generate a creaking heart in place of a random log surrounded by other `#logs` (any type of log, wood, stripped log, or stripped wood) on all sides. No creaking heart will generate if there is no log surrounded by other logs.

## Pale Moss

Pale moss uses the same [mechanics](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Moss_Block#Post-generation) as regular moss, but will not generate azaleas or flowering azaleas.

| Block            | Weight | Chance  |
| ---------------- | ------ | ------- |
| Pale Moss Carpet | 5      | 29.412% |
| Short Grass      | 10     | 58.824% |
| Tall Grass       | 2      | 11.765% |

Pale moss' [flammability](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Fire#Flammable_blocks) is the same as most shrubbery such as ferns and dead bushes, having 60 "ignite odds" and 100 "burn odds".

## Pale Hanging Moss

Pale hanging moss has 0.1 hardness and 0.1 blast resistance. Placing pale hanging moss into a composter has a 30% chance of raising the compost level by 1.

Pale hanging moss' [flammability](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Fire#Flammable_blocks) is the same as most shrubbery such as ferns and dead bushes, having 60 "ignite odds" and 100 "burn odds".

## Creaking

| Width | Height | Eye Height |
| ----- | ------ | ---------- |
| 0.9   | 2.7    | 2.3        |

The Creaking has 1 health and is immune to fire.

The Creaking does 2 damage on easy or normal difficulty, and **3 damage** on hard difficulty. It drops no items or experience.

**All types of illagers flee from the Creaking**, trying to get at least 8 blocks away from it. When an illager is fleeing from a Creaking and within 7 blocks of it, the illager moves 20% faster.

The Creaking only attacks players.

**The Creaking counts towards the monster mob cap.**

### Movement

The Creaking has 0.2 movement speed when idle and **0.3 movement speed** when chasing a player. **It instantly steps up 1 block**, similar to endermen.

If any player **within 12 blocks** is looking within a **60 degree angle** of the Creaking (120 degree FOV), the Creaking activates. The player must have line of sight to the Creaking's feet, eyes, or the middle position of its eyes and feet (1.15 blocks above its feet). The line of sight check is only based on the block's collision, so **transparent blocks such as glass block line of sight**. Fluids are ignored. Third-person perspective has no effect.

Once the Creaking activates, it makes no ambient sounds, and will freeze in its tracks if any player **within 32 blocks** is looking at it. While frozen, **it cannot be pushed, but it can push other entities.** If no players are within 32 blocks, the Creaking deactivates.

The Creaking emits an `entity_action` vibration whenever it activates, deactivates, freezes in its tracks, or starts moving again.

### Naturally Spawned Variant

A Creaking spawned by a Creaking Heart is the `creaking_transient` entity, while a Creaking spawned by a spawn egg is the `creaking` entity. A `creaking_transient` does not store its reference to its Creaking Heart block in NBT, and **will despawn if the chunk unloads.**

A naturally-spawned Creaking only takes damage from damage types in the `#bypasses_invulnerability` tag, being void damage and `/kill` damage.

A naturally-spawned Creaking will pathfind **up to 32 blocks away** from its Creaking Heart. If the Creaking is outside a 32 block radius, it will only pathfind towards the 32 block radius around its Creaking Heart.

### NBT Data

The Creaking uses the `can_move` and `is_active` boolean NBT fields to keep track of its state.

## Creaking Heart

The Creaking Heart has **5 hardness** and **5 blast resistance**. It cannot be pushed by pistons.

The Creaking Heart has 3 `creaking` states: `disabled`, `dormant`, and `active`.

When a `disabled` Creaking Heart receives a shape update, it becomes `dormant` if it is between two correctly aligned `#pale_oak_logs` (log, wood, stripped log, and stripped wood).

The Creaking Heart runs on a 20-tick timer. The timer does not go down if the Creaking Heart is `disabled`, and the timer resets to 0 if the block entity is unloaded.

If the Creaking Heart is not tied to a Creaking and is no longer correctly placed between logs, it becomes `disabled` again once the timer hits 0, despawning the Creaking if one was spawned.

### Spawning

The Creaking Heart is `active` if and only if the [internal sky light](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Light#Internal_sky_light) is **11 or lower**. Contrary to popular belief, the Creaking Heart is affected by rain and thunder. Once the Creaking Heart becomes active, it tries to spawn a Creaking.

If there is a player within 32 blocks of the Creaking Heart, it makes up to 5 attempts to spawn a Creaking within a **33x17x33 cubic area** centered on the Creaking Heart. During each attempt, the game picks a random column and tries to spawn a Creaking at the topmost valid block.

**The Creaking can spawn on any block with an upwards full face, excluding leaves.**

### Despawning

The Creaking despawns if it is **34 blocks or further away** from the bottom center of its Creaking Heart, or if the internal sky light is no longer 11 or lower.

The Creaking Heart block controls when the Creaking despawns, **not** the Creaking entity. **If the Creaking Heart is unloaded, the Creaking will not despawn when it wanders too far away or it becomes daytime.**

## Edits

### Oct 9 2024

- Clarify how distance from Creaking to Creaking Heart is calculated

### Nov 1 2024

- Add Pale Moss flammability

