---
layout: post
title: "Minecraft 24w10a"
date: 2024-03-06 18:23:45 -0400
---

This snapshot adds new wolf variants! See the [changelog](https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/minecraft-snapshot-24w10a).

## Wolf

When breeding two wolves, the offspring randomly chooses the variant of one of the parents and the collar color of one of the parents.

### Data

Wolf variants are data-driven. Variants are loaded into a dynamic registry from data packs (`data/<namespace>/wolf_variant/<id>`).

- These entries have four fields:
  - `texture`, `tame_texture`, and `angry_texture` (namespaced string) are texture locations for untamed, tamed, and angry wolves respectively.
  - `biomes` (biome, list of biomes, or hash-prefixed biome tag) is the list of biomes the wolf variant can spawn in.

If multiple variants can spawn in the same biome, the variant that was registered first always spawns.

Note that adding a biome to the wolf variant json does not add any spawns to that biome, it only causes any wolves that spawn in that biome to become that variant. To add wolf spawns to a biome, customize the spawners in `data/<namespace>/worldgen/biome/<biome>`.

## Biomes

Groves now spawn wolves, rabbits, and foxes in a 1:8:4 ratio instead of a 2:1:2 ratio.

Wooded badlands now spawn armadillos and wolves in a 3:1 ratio. Wooded badlands chunks now have a 4% chance to spawn creatures on generation instead of 3%.

Wolves spawn with weight 8/68 in Savanna Plateaus, weight 8/58 in Sparse Jungles, and weight 2/8 in Wooded Badlands.

Black and chestnut wolves actually spawn in packs of 4, not 2-4 as mentioned in the changelog.

## Misc

The `player.cursor` slot name is only unavailable in the creative inventory screen, not creative mode in general. Other screens such as chest inventories are functional.

## Edits

### Mar 7 2024

- Correct black and chestnut pack sizes from Mojang changelog

