---
layout: post
title: "Minecraft 24w46a"
date: 2024-11-14 20:03:58 -0400
---

A smaller snapshot with tweaks to Winter Drop content, components, and bugfixes. See the [changelog](https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/minecraft-snapshot-24w46a).

## Creaking

The `creaking` and `creaking_transient` entity types were combined into one `creaking` entity. Creakings spawned from a Creaking Heart are still immune to fire, cannot ride entities, cannot be ridden, and cannot use portals.

The `home_pos` NBT stores the Creaking Heart's position, if the Creaking was spawned from a heart.

## Creaking Heart

The Creaking Heart's hardness and blast resistance was doubled from 5 to **10**. Contrary to the changelog, its mining speed was havled, not doubled.

When the Creaking Heart loads, it will try to find its Creaking entity. If the Creaking is not loaded within **30 ticks**, the Creaking Heart disconnects from the Creaking.

The Creaking Heart now runs on a random timer from 20 ticks to 24 ticks.

The `creaking` NBT stores the connected Creaking's UUID.

## Eyeblossoms

Open Eyeblossoms now poison bees for **11 seconds**, up from 7 seconds.

## Tags

The `#small_flowers` block tag was removed, and its contents were inlined into `#replaceable_by_trees`.

The `#<mob>_preferred_weapon` item tags were renamed to `#<mob>_preferred_weapons` (with an `s` at the end).

The `#trim_templates` item tag was removed.

## Data Components

The `animation` field in the `consumable` component has a new animation type: `bundle`

