---
layout: post
title: "Minecraft 1.21.9-pre1"
date: 2025-09-16 21:49:28 -0500
changelog: "https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/minecraft-1-21-9-pre-release-1"
---

The first Copper Age pre-release is out with several fixes.

## Copper Golem

Lightning bolts remove one stage of oxidization from struck copper golems, fixing [MC-300257](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-300257). However, copper golems still do not attract lightning.

Copper golems riding vehicles now only search for neighboring chests (within a 3×3×3 block box).

Copper golems now wait one tick after finding a new target chest.

To reach a chest horizontally, the copper golem’s hitbox must be less than **0.75 blocks** from the chest’s hitbox in both the X and Z axes (chessboard distance). While the copper golem is pathfinding to the chest, its range is reduced to 0.5 blocks.

Once the copper golem creates a path to its target chest, it will check if that chest is reachable every tick:
- If the copper golem was at the end of the path, it would be close enough to interact with the chest (using the 0.75 block horizontal range)
- If the copper golem was at the end of the path, its center would have line of sight with any of the chest block's faces (treating the chest as a full block)

If the above conditions are met, the chest is added to the unreachable chests list.

## Portals

End portals only prevent fall damage for players. Nether portals also prevent fall damage for players if the `playersNetherPortalDefaultDelay` game rule is 0.

## Debug Properties

Two new debug properties were added: `-DMC_DEBUG_VERBOSE_COMMAND_ERRORS` and `-DMC_DEBUG_DEV_COMMANDS`.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_CHUNKS`

No longer crashes on world load.

Shows the following data for each chunk location (requires operator permissions to use on a server):
- `Client:` "0n/a" if there is no client chunk at that location, "E" if the client chunk is empty, and nothing otherwise
- `Server:` The chunk's [load level](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Chunk#Level_and_load_type)
- `St:` The chunk's [status](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Loading_world_screen#Java_Edition) in memory
- `Ch:` The chunk's status when it was last written to disk
- The chunk's load type (entity ticking, block ticking, border, or inaccessible)

In singleplayer worlds, shows the [chunk colormap](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Loading_world_screen#Java_Edition) in the F3 screen.

If the F3 menu is open while loading a singleplayer world, the game will crash.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_VERBOSE_COMMAND_ERRORS`

Instead of printing "An unexpected error occurred trying to execute that command" when an exception is thrown while executing a command, prints the exception message and logs the exception stack trace.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_DEV_COMMANDS`

Enables debug commands.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_GENERATE_SQUARE_TERRAIN_WITHOUT_NOISE`

No longer crashes on world load.

Only generates terrain between (0, 0) and (8207, 1039). In the overworld, generates simplified terrain where:
- Desert and badlands biomes generate when erosion noise matches certain ranges
- Snowy taiga biomes generate when continentalness noise matches certain ranges
- Plains generate everywhere else

### `-DMC_DEBUG_DONT_SEND_TELEMETRY_TO_BACKEND`

Now only disables sending telemetry data if the `SharedConstants.isDevelopment` (yarn mappings) variable is true.

## Debug Commands

These commands are enabled if the `-DMC_DEBUG_DEV_COMMANDS` flag is set.

### `/raid`

- `/raid start <omenlvl>`: Starts a raid with the given omen level at the current location if one doesn't already exist
- `/raid stop`: Stops a raid at the current location
- `/raid check`: Prints the current raid's number of groups spawned, omen level, number of mobs (total raiders alive), and current and total raid health
- `/raid sound local`: Plays the raid horn sound at `~5 ~ ~`
- `/raid spawnleader`: Spawns a pillager captain at the current location
- `/raid setomen <level>`: Sets the current raid's omen level
- `/raid glow`: Gives all raiders belonging to the current raid Glowing 2 for 50 seconds

Requires permission level 3. The source executor must be a player.

### `/debugpath`

`/debugpath <to>` pathfinds from the current location to the target location `<to>` and reports whether the path could not be found, the target could not be reached, or the target was reached successfully.

The source executor must be a mob.

### `/debugmobspawning`

`/debugmobspawning <category> <at>` simulates a natural mob spawning attempt for the `<category>` mob category at the `<at>` block position.

### `/warden_spawn_tracker`

- `/warden_spawn_tracker set <warning_level>`: Sets the current player's [warden warning level](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Sculk_Shrieker#Spawning_wardens) to a number 0-4
- `/warden_spawn_tracker clear`: Clears the current player's warden warning level, shrieker cooldown ticks, and ticks since last warning

The source executor must be a player.

### `/spawn_armor_trims`

- `/spawn_armor_trims <pattern>`: Spawns armor stands with the given trim pattern and every combination of armor and trim material
- `/spawn_armor_trims *_lag_my_game`: Spawns armor stands with every combination of armor, trim pattern, and trim material (and lags your game)

### `/serverpack`

- `/serverpack push <url> [<uuid>] [<hash>]`: Tells all connected clients to add a server resource pack with the given `<url>`, optionally with an ID and hash
- `/serverpack pop <uuid>`: Tells all connected clients to remove a server resource pack with the given ID

### `/debugconfig`

- `/debugconfig config <target>`: Switches the target player's connection phase to configuration, removing them from the world
- `/debugconfig unconfig <target>`: Switches the target player's connection phase to play, adding them to the world (`<target>` only accepts UUIDs)
- `/debugconfig dialog <target> <dialog>`: Shows a dialog to the target player, as long as their connection is in configuration phase (`<target>` only accepts UUIDs)

Only available on dedicated servers. Requires permission level 3.

## Edits

### Sep 16 2025

- Clarify that `-DMC_DEBUG_GENERATE_SQUARE_TERRAIN_WITHOUT_NOISE` only changes biomes in the overworld

