---
layout: post
title: "Minecraft 25w15a"
date: 2025-04-17 16:16:43 -0500
changelog: "https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/minecraft-snapshot-25w15a"
---

The Happy Ghast is here.

## Dried Ghast

The Dried Ghast block breaks instantly.

When the Dried Ghast is random ticked, it will grow 4 minutes and 10 seconds later. It grows three times from `hydration` 0 to `hydration` 3, then spawns a Ghastling after the fourth time.

When a Nether Fossil structure generates, there is a 50% chance the structure will pick a random bottom block to try to place a Dried Ghast block. That block must be empty for the structure to place a Dried Ghast.

## Happy Ghast

| Age   | Width | Height | Eye Height |
| ----- | ----- | ------ | ---------- |
| Adult | 4     | 4      | 2.6        |
| Baby  | 0.95  | 0.95   | 0.6175     |

Ghastlings follow all passive mobs (except Happy Ghasts and Zombie Horses) and the following neutral mobs:
- Bee
- Fox
- Goat
- Llama (does not include Trader Llama)
- Panda
- Polar Bear
- Wolf

Ghastling can breathe underwater, while adult Happy Ghasts cannot. Happy Ghasts will dismount all passengers when underwater.

Happy Ghasts regenerate health at a rate of 1 health every 30 seconds, or 1 health every second if raining, snowing, or if any part of the Happy Ghast's hitbox is at cloud height (y=192).

Happy Ghasts stop movement if a player is wihtin a 6×1×6 box above the Happy Ghast.

Parrots cannot imitate Happy Ghasts.

## Locator Bar

The Locator Bar can track players that are outside of render distance.

The `/waypoint` command is locked behind the Locator Bar experiment.

## Misc

The [bug](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC/issues/MC-240121) where a Woodland Mansion structure piece does not generate has been fixed.

## Edits

### Apr 30 2025

- Ghastlings do not follow adult Happy Ghasts

