---
layout: post
title: "Minecraft 25w35a"
date: 2025-08-26 22:27:19 -0500
---

Several Copper Golem fixes and a new protocol for managing servers. See the [changelog](https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/minecraft-snapshot-25w35a).

## Copper Golem

### Pathfinding

Once the copper golem creates a path to its target chest, it will check if that chest is reachable every tick:
- The block at the end of the path must be within a 3x3x3 cube surrounding the chest.
- If the golem were at the ending block's middle, its eyes (at y=0.8125) must have line of sight with the chest block's center (at `(0.5, 0.5, 0.5)`). Only collision hitboxes obstruct line of sight.

If the target chest is not reachable, the chest's location is added to a list of unreachable chest locations. An unreachable chest is no longer considered a "visited" chest, so chests the copper golem cannot reach do not count towards the 10-chest limit. Once **50** chests cannot be reached and the golem cannot reach a 51st chest, the copper golem will reset all visited and unreachable chests and wait 7 seconds before trying again.

Previously, copper golems would give up reaching its target chest if the following conditions were met. Now, copper golems will not give up.

<details>
<summary>Previous give up conditions</summary>
<ul>
  <li>The current copper golem’s hitbox is less than 0.5 blocks from the chest’s hitbox in both the X and Z axes (chessboard distance)</li>
  <li>The copper golem’s position is within 0.499 blocks (inclusive, previously was 0.5 blocks) to 2 blocks (exclusive) below the chest</li>
</ul>
</details>
<br>

A new behavior memory was added:
- List `unreachable_transport_block_positions`: List of unreachable chest positions
    - Compound Tag: A block position
        - Int Array `pos`: The block coordinates `[x, y, z]`
        - String `dimension`: The dimension as a namespaced ID

### Chest Opening

In order to actually open a chest, the copper golem uses different conditions, which have changed since last snapshot:

To reach a chest horizontally, the copper golem’s hitbox must be less than **1 block** from the chest’s hitbox in both the X and Z axes (chessboard distance). While the copper golem is pathfinding to the chest, its range is reduced to 0.2 blocks.

Copper golems can reach a chest vertically if their hitbox is within **0.5 blocks** of the chest's collision box.
- To reach a chest 2 blocks higher, the copper golem must stand on anything taller than 0.52 blocks tall
- To reach a chest 1 block lower, the copper golem must stand on anything shorter than 0.375 blocks tall

