---
layout: post
title: "Minecraft 25w37a"
date: 2025-09-11 16:24:09 -0500
---

This snapshot exposes many debug features that were previously developer-exclusive. See the [changelog](https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/minecraft-snapshot-25w37a).

## Copper Golem

If a copper golem is interacting with a chest and is pushed 2 blocks away from the chest (chessboard distance to its hitbox) or is pushed vertically out of range, then it will stop interacting with the chest, walk towards it, and try again.

## Copper Armor

If a mob spawns with armor, the chances it will have certain armor tiers equipped has changed:

| Tier    | Old      | 25w31a    | 25w37a   |
| ------- | -------- | --------- | -------- |
| Leather | 37.06%   | 33.54%    | 23.60%   |
| Copper  | N/A      | 47.62%    | 32.24%   |
| Gold    | 48.73%   | 16.30%    | 33.29%   |
| Chain   | 12.90%   | 2.373%    | 9.731%   |
| Iron    | 1.268%   | 0.1593%   | 1.096%   |
| Diamond | 0.04287% | 0.004073% | 0.04281% |

## Splashes

Changed "Now on OpenGL 3.2 core profile!" to "Now on OpenGL 3.3 core profile!".

## Debug Features

Some debug features were previously in the code but only available to modders, or not in the compiled code at all and only accessible to Mojang developers.

Some debug renders assign debug names to entities so the entities are easier to track. If an entity does not have a custom name, the game will generate a two-word debug name such as "WeirdShirt" or "SillyFist". The generation is based on the entity's UUID, so the name is consistent across the entity's lifespan.

Debug names are usually but not always unique, since there are 990 possible combinations.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_OPEN_INCOMPATIBLE_WORLDS`

All worlds are shown as compatible and can be opened without confirmation.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_ALLOW_LOW_SIM_DISTANCE`

Allows client simulation distance to be set as low as 2 chunks. Server simulation distance is already unrestricted, so this flag has no effect on servers.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_HOTKEYS`

Enables several debugging hotkeys:

| Hotkey               | Description                                                                            |
| -------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `F3` + `E`           | Toggles the `chunk_section_paths` debug option                                         |
| `F3` + `O`           | Toggles the `chunk_section_octree` debug option                                        |
| `F3` + `V`           | Toggles the `chunk_section_visibility` debug option                                    |
| `F3` + `W`           | Toggles wireframe rendering                                                            |
| `F3` + `L`           | Toggles smart culling                                                                  |
| `F3` + `U`           | Captures the viewing frustum, showing its field of vision and culling outside sections |
| `F3` + `Shift` + `U` | Kills the viewing frustum, enabling normal rendering again                             |
| `F3` + `F`           | Toggles fog                                                                            |

### `-DMC_DEBUG_UI_NARRATION`

Allows narration even when the `text2speech` library cannot load the operating system's narrator (marked by "Error while loading the narrator" in the logs). There will be no narrated output but the narration code will still run.

The narrator will still be completely disabled on unsupported operating systems (`os.name` system property does not contain either "win", "mac", or "linux").

### `-DMC_DEBUG_SHUFFLE_UI_RENDERING_ORDER`

Constantly shuffles the rendering order of many UI elements.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_SHUFFLE_MODELS`

Constantly shuffles the model feature render order.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_RENDER_UI_LAYERING_RECTANGLES`

Renders bounding boxes for UI elements.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_PATHFINDING`

Enables the pathfinding debug renderer. Requires operator permissions to use on a server.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_WATER`

Enables the water height debug renderer.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_HEIGHTMAP`

Enables the heightmap debug renderer.

| Heightmap                          | Color     |
| ---------------------------------- | --------- |
| `WORLD_SURFACE` (`S`)              | Green     |
| `OCEAN_FLOOR` (`O`)                | Blue      |
| `MOTION_BLOCKING` (`M`)            | Dark Cyan |
| `MOTION_BLOCKING_NO_LEAVES` (`ML`) | Cyan      |

Note that the `OCEAN_FLOOR` heightmap currently doesn't display properly.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_COLLISION`

Renders the collision boxes of nearby blocks.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_SHOW_LOCAL_SERVER_ENTITY_HIT_BOXES`

Renders the true server-side entity hitboxes. Only works in singleplayer.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_SUPPORT_BLOCKS`

Shows debug rendering for the main supporting block the player and nearby entities are standing on.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_SHAPES`

Renders the shape (white), collision box (gray), occlusion shape (green), and interaction box (blue) of the block you are looking at.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_NEIGHBORSUPDATE`

Shows the number of block updates each block received in a single tick the last time it got updated. Requires operator permissions to use on a server.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_EXPERIMENTAL_REDSTONEWIRE_UPDATE_ORDER`

Shows the orientation of redstone wire updates when the redstone experiments are enabled. Blue is forward, yellow is the side bias, and red is "up". Requires operator permissions to use on a server.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_STRUCTURES`

Renders structure bounding boxes. Requires operator permissions to use on a server.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_LIGHT`

Shows the client light engine's state for each chunk section. "2" means empty, "1" means light only, and "0" means light and data.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_SKY_LIGHT_SECTIONS`

Shows the client light engine's state for each chunk section. No coloring means empty, brown means light only, and yellow means light and data.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_SOLID_FACE`

Highlights all solid, sturdy block faces.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_CHUNKS`

Currently crashes on world load.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_GAME_EVENT_LISTENERS`

Highlights blocks and entities that listen to game events (sculk vibrations). Whenever a game event occurs, its origin position is shown along with the game event type. Requires operator permissions to use on a server.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_DUMP_TEXTURE_ATLAS`

Dumps texture atlases to `screenshots/debug` when loading or reloading textures.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_DUMP_INTERPOLATED_TEXTURE_FRAMES`

Dumps sprite interpolation frames to `screenshots/debug` when loading or reloading textures.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_STRUCTURE_EDIT_MODE`

When loading a structure in a structure block, structure voids are preserved.

When placing a structure in the world (naturally, from structure block, or from command), containers no longer set `LootTableSeed` to a random value.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_SAVE_STRUCTURES_AS_SNBT`

When saving a structure using a structure block, the structure is saved as SNBT with a `.snbt` extension.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_SYNCHRONOUS_GL_LOGS`

Enables the `GL_DEBUG_OUTPUT_SYNCHRONOUS` OpenGL flag. If an OpenGL debug message callback is registered, it guarantees that the callback will be called synchronously.

See the [OpenGL](https://www.khronos.org/opengl/wiki/Debug_Output#Getting_messages) and [LWJGL](https://legacy.lwjgl.org/javadoc/org/lwjgl/opengl/GL43.html#glDebugMessageCallback(org.lwjgl.opengl.KHRDebugCallback)) docs for details. Requires OpenGL 4.3 or later.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_VERBOSE_SERVER_EVENTS`

Prints debug level logs when certain server events occur:

```java
// When a chunk's load level changes
RES {chunkPos} {taskQueueLevel} {loadLevel}
// When a new chunk task is submitted
// (generation, light engine, player load)
SUB {chunkPos} {taskQueueLevel} {taskSchedulerName} {queueName}
// Distance Manager Updates (when the game computes chunk load levels)
DMU {numberOfChunksChecked}
// When a chunk's lighting is updated
LIT {chunkPos}
// When a chunk is sent to a client
SEN {chunkPos}
// When a chunk load ticket is added
ATI {chunkPos} {ticket}
// When a chunk load ticket is removed
RTI {chunkPos} {ticket}
```

See [the wiki](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Chunk#Level_and_load_type) for more details on chunk load levels and ticket types.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_NAMED_RUNNABLES`

Adds debugging names to runnables created from `Util#debugRunnable` or `Util#debugSupplier` (yarn mappings). Has no effect on the vanilla game.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_GOAL_SELECTOR`

Renders the class names of mob AI goals above their heads. Currently running goals are highlighted green. Requires operator permissions to use on a server.

Note that not all mobs use goals. Some use brains instead.

Class names are obfuscated in the vanilla game, so a modded environment is required to show human-readable goal names.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_VILLAGE_SECTIONS`

Highlights sections within a village's bounds. Requires operator permissions to use on a server.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_BRAIN`

Shows information stored in the target mob's [brain](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Mob_AI#Brain) in a human-readable format:

| Type                      | Color                                     |
| ------------------------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| Memories                  | Gray                                      |
| Gossips (villager)        | White (about self), Orange (about others) |
| Anger (warden)            | Pink                                      |
| "Wants Golem" (villager)  | Orange                                    |
| Activities                | Lime                                      |
| Behaviors                 | Cyan                                      |
| Inventory                 | Pink                                      |
| Health                    | White (full), Orange (damaged)            |
| Profession, XP (villager) | White                                     |
| Debug Name                | White                                     |

Behaviors are shown as obfuscated class names, so a modded environment is required to show human-readable behavior names.

Note that not all mobs use brains. Some use goals instead.

Requires operator permissions to use on a server.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_POI`

Shows the POI type and number of free tickets for nearby [POI](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Point_of_Interest)s. Requires operator permissions to use on a server.

If `-DMC_DEBUG_BRAIN` is enabled, also lists the debug names of entities own the POI (have a `job_site`, `home`, or `meeting_point` memory), and villagers that are candidates for the POI (have a `potential_job_site` memory). If more than 3 entities are owners or candidates for a single POI, then the total count is shown instead of individual names.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_BEES`

Renders debugging information for bees, hives and flowers. Requires operator permissions to use on a server.

Bees show their travel time in ticks, goals, target flower position, hive position, and list of blacklisted hive positions. Bee goals are shown as obfuscated class names, so a modded environment is required to show human-readable goal names.

Hives show whether they are sedated by a campfire, the honey level, debug names of bees that are inside and outside the hive, and bees that have blacklisted the hive. If a hive is broken, but a bee still has the hive's position memorized, the block becomes a *ghost hive*. Ghost hives display the debug names of bees that still have the ghost hive set as their hive position.

Flowers show the debug names of bees that are pollinating them.

If more than 3 bees are tracking a single hive or flower, then the total count is shown instead of individual names.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_RAIDS`

If set on the client, highlights the raid center location. Requires operator permissions to use on a server.

If set on the server or in a singleplayer world, shows the number of raiders, raider health, whether the wave is a bonus wave, and the raid status (ongoing, victory, loss, or stopped) in the boss bar.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_BLOCK_BREAK`

When set on the client, prints debug level logs when certain block break events occur:

```java
// When the client receives a block changed acknowledgement packet from the server
ACK {playerActionSequenceNumber}

// When starting to break a block in survival/adventure mode
Start break {blockPos} {blockState}
// When starting to break a block in creative mode
Creative start {blockPos} {blockState}

// When the player stops breaking a block because it started breaking a different block
Abort old break {newBlockPos} {newBlockState}
// When the player stops breaking a block because it is no longer targeting a block
Stop dest {oldBlockPos} {oldBlockState}

// When continuing to break a block in creative mode
Creative cont {blockPos} {blockState}

// When the player finishes trying to break a block
Finished breaking {blockPos} {blockState}
// When a block is actually broken on the client
client broke {blockPos} {beforeBlockState} -> {afterBlockState}
```

When set on the server, prints debug level logs when certain block break events occur:

```java
// When the server acknowledges a client's block action
// The possible {event}s are in the below table
Server ACK {playerActionSequenceNumber} {blockPos} {didServerTakeAction} {event}

// When a block is actually broken on the server
server broke {blockPos} {beforeBlockState} -> {afterBlockState}
```

| Event                                                                        | Description                                                |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| destroyed                                                                    | \*                                                         |
| insta mine                                                                   | \*                                                         |
| creative destroy                                                             | \*                                                         |
| too far                                                                      | Block outside interaction range                            |
| too high                                                                     | Block above world height                                   |
| may not interact                                                             | Block under spawn protection or outside world border       |
| block action restricted                                                      | Cannot place blocks in current game mode                   |
| abort destroying since another started (client insta mine, server disagreed) |                                                            |
| actual start of destroying                                                   | Player starts destroying a block                           |
| stopped destroying                                                           | Player finishes destroying a block                         |
| aborted mismatched destroying                                                | Client and server disagree about which block was destroyed |
| aborted destroying                                                           | Player stops destroying a block                            |

\* `didServerTakeAction` can be false if all checks pass but the server refuses to break the block for some other reason, such as a non-operator trying to break a command block.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_MONITOR_TICK_TIMES`

Whenever a single tick takes longer than 300ms, saves profiler results to `debug/Renderer` (if on the client), or `debug/Server` (if on the server).

### `-DMC_DEBUG_KEEP_JIGSAW_BLOCKS_DURING_STRUCTURE_GEN`

Disables replacing jigsaw blocks when generating jigsaw structures.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_DONT_SAVE_WORLD`

Disables saving chunks, entities (excluding players), and POI. Advancements, statistics, active raids, random sequences, world borders, and everything in [level.dat](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Java_Edition_level_format#level.dat_format) are still saved.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_LARGE_DRIPSTONE`

When generating the `large_dripstone` feature, places a diamond block at the top of the column, a gold block at the bottom of the column, and creeper heads between the stalactites and stalagmites (with some drift due to the `wind_speed` parameter). All generated dripstone blocks are replaced with glass.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_CARVERS`

Enables `debug_mode` for all [carvers](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Carver_definition#JSON_format).

### `-DMC_DEBUG_ORE_VEINS`

Only generates ore veins, fluids, and structures. Granite and tuff are replaced with oak buttons.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_SCULK_CATALYST`

Saves additional stats to each sculk catalyst's block entity data:

- Integer `stats.total`: The sum of all sculk charge experience
- Integer `stats.count`: The number of sculk charges
- Integer `stats.max`: The amount of experience stored in the biggest sculk charge
- Integer `stats.avg`: The average experience stored across all sculk charges

### `-DMC_DEBUG_BYPASS_REALMS_VERSION_CHECK`

Bypasses all Realms availability checks, including version checking, authentication, and whether the user is allowed to access Realms. This only allows opening the Realms menus and cannot be used to join Realms without authentication.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_SOCIAL_INTERACTIONS`

Allows opening the Social Interactions menu in singleplayer. Adds the current player and any blocked players to the reporting screen. Allows opening the report screen even if chat is disabled due to options, a launcher argument, or Minecraft account settings.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_VALIDATE_RESOURCE_PATH_CASE`

Resource packs will only load files if the case matches exactly (for example, if a resource pack tries to find `path/to/file.json` but the file is actually at `path/to/File.json`, it will fail). If the file is on a different file system type than the system's default (such as the file system for loading files bundled with the game's JAR file), validation is skipped.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_UNLOCK_ALL_TRADES`

Villagers will immediately choose and unlock trades for their max level.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_BREEZE_MOB`

Renders breeze AI debugging information. Requires operator permissions to use on a server.

Draws a green circle 4 blocks away from the breeze's target, an orange circle 8 blocks away, and a red circle 24 blocks away. A breeze must be between the green and red circles (4-24 blocks) to jump, and it will pick a jump target between the green and orange rings (4-8 blocks).

A blue line is drawn from the breeze to its current target. A breeze's jump target is highlighted in red, and a pink line is drawn from the breeze to its jump target.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_TRIAL_SPAWNER_DETECTS_SHEEP_AS_PLAYERS`

Trial spawners detect sheep and only sheep.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_VAULT_DETECTS_SHEEP_AS_PLAYERS`

Vaults detect sheep and only sheep.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_FORCE_ONBOARDING_SCREEN`

Always shows the onboarding screen at startup.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_CURSOR_POS`

Shows the current mouse position coordinates.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_DEFAULT_SKIN_OVERRIDE`

Causes all players to display their default skin.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_PANORAMA_SCREENSHOT`

Allows pressing `Ctrl` + `F2` to take a panoramic screenshot. Saved as `panorama_0.png` through `panorama_5.png` in the screenshots folder.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_CHASE_COMMAND`

Enables the `/chase` command. Executing `/chase lead [<bind_address>] [<port>]` starts a chase server, and other game instances can connect to the chase server using `/chase follow [<host>] [<port>]`. The following player(s) will constantly be teleported to the leading player's position and dimension.

The default bind address and port for the chase server is `0.0.0.0:10000`. The default host and port for the chase client is `localhost:10000`.

If the leading player is connected to a Minecraft server with multiple players, the following players will be teleported to an arbitrary player.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_IGNORE_LOCAL_MOB_CAP`

Mob spawns ignore local, per-player mob cap. The global mob cap is not ignored.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_DISABLE_LIQUID_SPREADING`

Disables liquid spreading.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_AQUIFERS`

At positive Z coordinates, places strips of slime blocks (below sea level) and honey blocks (above sea level) marking where aquifers generate.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_JFR_PROFILING_ENABLE_LEVEL_LOADING`

Starts the profiler when loading the world, and stops it when level loading is complete.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_ENTITY_BLOCK_INTERSECTION`

Highlights full block spaces nearby entities are intersecting with. Requires operator permissions to use on a server.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_GENERATE_SQUARE_TERRAIN_WITHOUT_NOISE`

Currently crashes on world load.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_ONLY_GENERATE_HALF_THE_WORLD`

Only generates the world where z ≥ 0. Features and structures may extend into negative z positions.

Liquids do not flow into negative z positions.

If `-DMC_DEBUG_WORLD_RECREATE` is enabled, also sets the spawn to (0, 64, -100) in all new worlds.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_DISABLE_FLUID_GENERATION`

Disables fluid generation. Features and structures can still generate fluids.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_DISABLE_AQUIFERS`

Disables aquifer generation.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_DISABLE_SURFACE`

Disables [surface rules](https://minecraft.wiki/w/Surface_rule), causing the overworld to generate without its surface grass and dirt layers.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_DISABLE_CARVERS`

Disables cave carvers.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_DISABLE_STRUCTURES`

Disables structure generation. Structures can still be placed through structure blocks or commands.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_DISABLE_FEATURES`

Disables feature generation. Explorer maps will not try to find nearby structures.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_DISABLE_ORE_VEINS`

Disables large copper and iron vein generation.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_DISABLE_BLENDING`

Disables easing the transition between chunks generated in different versions, known as blending. Disables scheduling ticks for blocks in old chunks on the border of a newly generated chunk.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_DISABLE_BELOW_ZERO_RETROGENERATION`

Disables replacing bedrock at the bottom of old worlds and generating new caves underneath.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_SUBTITLES`

Shows `<sound_id> missing` in subtitles whenever an unregistered sound plays.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_FAKE_LATENCY_MS`

When set on the server or in a singleplayer world, simulates connection latency by delaying packets set to clients.

Can be set to any integer (example: `-DMC_DEBUG_FAKE_LATENCY_MS=10`), but only positive numbers will add latency.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_FAKE_JITTER_MS`

When set on the server or in a singleplayer world, simulates connection jitter by waiting a random time between 0 and `jitter - 1` milliseconds, in addition to the fake latency.

Can be set to any integer (example: `-DMC_DEBUG_FAKE_JITTER_MS=10`). Requires `-DMC_DEBUG_FAKE_LATENCY_MS` to be positive.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_COMMAND_STACK_TRACES`

Adds stack traces to `CommandSyntaxException`, allowing developers to investigate the code path before the exception occurred.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_WORLD_RECREATE`

Adds a "DEBUG recreate" button to the select world screen. When clicked, it creates a world named "DEBUG world" (deleting a world with that name if it exists) with seed `test1` (`110251487`) in spectator mode.

Changes the default values for the `doDaylightCycle` and `doWeatherCycle` game rules to false in all new worlds.

If `-DMC_DEBUG_ONLY_GENERATE_HALF_THE_WORLD` is enabled, also sets the spawn to (0, 64, -100) in all new worlds.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_SHOW_SERVER_DEBUG_VALUES`

In a singleplayer world, adds the server-side biome and light levels to the debug screen, and replaces the client-side looking at block/fluid values with server-side values.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_FEATURE_COUNT`

Keeps track of feature placement counts over time. Press `L` to print feature counts and other debugging information in the following order:

- whether the dimension is "running" or "dead"
- the dimension
- number of times the feature was placed
- average feature placements per chunk
- the *placed feature* used for biome checking
- the configured feature
- the feature itself

Press `R` to reset feature placement counts.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_FORCE_TELEMETRY`

Allows telemetry even if the `SharedConstants.isDevelopment` (yarn mappings) variable is true. Telemetry is still disabled if the user account is blocked from telemetry.

### `-DMC_DEBUG_DONT_SEND_TELEMETRY_TO_BACKEND`

Disables sending telemetry data.

