---
layout: post
title: "Minecraft 25w02a"
date: 2025-01-16 01:51:25 -0400
changelog: "https://www.minecraft.net/en-us/article/minecraft-snapshot-25w02a"
---

The first snapshot of 2025, adding pig variants, new flowers, and many more tweaks.

## Wildflowers

Bees can pollinate wildflowers, and wildflowers can be used to breed bees.

## Leaf Litter

Trees can replace leaf litter when growing.

## Creaking

Attacking a Creaking emits an `entity_action` game event (sculk sensor frequency 4), fixing [MC-278659](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-278659).

## Misc

Big dripleaf blocks can no longer be placed on pale moss.

Boats being rocked by bubble columns now have a 1/100 chance to emit a `splash` game event (sculk sensor frequency 2) every tick, decreased from a 1/20 chance every tick.

If a player gliding with an elytra flies within range of a climbable block, they stop gliding, fixing [MC-90212](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC-90212).

Book cloning now works on any item with the `written_book_content` component, not just written books.

## Particles

Added a new particle: `tinted_leaves`. Its color is taken from tint index 0 of the block above its spawn position.

## Tree Decorators

Added a new tree decorator: `place_on_ground`, with the following format:

```json
{
  "type": "minecraft:place_on_ground",
  "block_state_provider": {...},
  "height": /* integer */,
  "radius": /* integer */,
  "tries": /* integer */
}
```

It places blocks defined by `block_state_provider` around a certain `radius` and `height` around the tree's lowest logs and roots. If there are multiple logs and/or roots at the lowest Y level, then a box is created that encompasses all the logs and roots, and then blocks can be placed within `radius` and `height` around the box.

The decorator will choose a random location `tries` times within the available area, placing a block if the chosen location supports the block.

